The concept of a "class" is abstract. You can think of classes as blueprints for creating objects. Say you want to make a house. You'll need some instructions for how to make a house - a blueprint. A house should have a roof, and some windows, and needs to be on a piece of land, it needs to have paint, etc. You can use that blueprint to make any number of houses, right? And the blueprint itself is not a house. It's just a plan about how to make a house.

Classes work the same way. We'll create a class and give it "properties" or "attributes". Any objects created from that class will have the same attributes, but different values. For instance, our blueprint might say that a house needs to have "paint". When we create a real house from that blueprint, we'll define that paint color.

A Ruby class always starts with the keyword `class` followed by the name of the class. The name should always be in initial capitals. For instance a `House` class can be created as:

```ruby
class House
end
```

This is the bare minimum code you need to write to create a class. Try to define and instantiate the `House` class in irb:

``` ruby 
$ irb
2.2.0 :001 > class House
2.2.0 :002?>   end
 => nil
```

Now let's create a account object and use it:
 
`2.2.0 :003 > house = House.new`

 `=> #<House:0x007fc55110ad60>`

The `house = House.new` command creates an **instance** of the `House` class and stores it in a local variable called `house`. At this point there is not much we can do with this object, but still, it has come to life ;-)

Now `house` stores a "real" `House`, whereas the `House` class is just instructions for creating one.