Let's say that we want the `House` class to have some attributes, like color or number of windows.

Every Ruby class invokes a **constructor** method called `initialize`. This is stuff that happens to the instance of the class (the object) right when it is created.

```ruby
class House  
  def initialize(color, windows)
    @color = color
    @windows = windows
  end
end
```

Try this code in `irb` by defining the class and trying to instantiate an new `House` object. What happens if you do this?

``` ruby
2.2.0 :001 > house = House.new
```

You have not passed in any values to the `initialize` method and you are getting an error, right? It might look something like this:

```ruby
ArgumentError: wrong number of arguments (0 for 2)
    from (irb):87:in `initialize'
    from (irb):96:in `new'
    from (irb):96
    from /Users/thomas/.rvm/rubies/ruby-2.2.0/bin/irb:11:in `<main>'
```

Try instead to pass in a name and a balance as "arguments":

```ruby
2.2.0 :098 > house = House.new 'blue', 10
``` 
``` ruby
 => #<House:0x007fb35421ab60 @color="blue", @windows=10>
```

Looks like that works better, right?

The `initialize` method takes the paramaters `color` and `windows`, then sets those values on the object. The line `@color = color` means it will take the `color` that is input to the method and save it as part of the instance. `color` and `@color` are variables - they could both be called anything. Don't believe me? Try:

```ruby
class House  
  def initialize(dinosaurs, bugs)
    @color = dinosaurs
    @windows = bugs
  end
end
```

Run this in irb and see what a new `House` object looks like. Where are the dinosuars?

We are still not quite where we want to be. In many cases you want to be not only be able to access the values (that we can do at this point), but also modify them. For that we need some **setter methods**. We could define those methods ourselves, but Ruby offers us a better way. How about this code:

```ruby
class House  
  attr_accessor :color, :windows
  def initialize(color, windows)
    @color = color
    @windows = windows
  end
end
```

That `attr_accessor` is a helper method that allows us to `read` and `write` to the attributes listed after it. So now we can "set" the attributes `color` and `windows`. Try running your code again in irb. Change the color of the house. Give it some more windows.